Hi.
In this video, we will discuss basic
visual generation approaches for
datetime and coordinate features.
They both differ significantly from
numeric and categorical features.
Because we can interpret the meaning of
datetime and coordinates, we can came
up with specific ideas about future
generation which we'll discuss here.
Now, let's start with datetime.
Datetime is quite a distinct feature
because it isn't relying on your nature,
it also has several different
tiers like year, day or week.
Most new features generated from datetime
can be divided into two categories.
The first one,
time moments in a period, and
the second one,
time passed since particular event.
First one is very simple.
We can add features like second,
minute, hour, day in a week,
in a month, on the year and
so on and so forth.
This is useful to capture
repetitive patterns in the data.
If we know about some non-common
materials which influence the data,
we can add them as well.
For example, if we are to predict
efficiency of medication, but
patients receive pills one
time every three days,
we can consider this as
a special time period.
Okay now, time seems particular event.
This event can be either
row-independent or row-dependent.
In the first case, we just calculate
time passed from one general moment for
all data.
For example, from here to thousand.
Here, all samples will become pairable
between each other on one time scale.
As the second variant of
time since particular event,
that date will depend on the sample
we are calculating this for.
For example,
if we are to predict sales in a shop,
like in the ROSSMANN's
store sales competition.
We can add the number of days passed
since the last holiday, weekend or
since the last sales campaign, or maybe
the number of days left to these events.
So, after adding these features,
our dataframe can look like this.
Date is obviously a date, and
sales are the target of this task.
While other columns
are generated features.
Week day feature indicates which day
in the week is this, daynumber since
year 2014 indicates how many days
have passed since January 1st, 2014.
is_holiday is a binary feature indicating
whether this day is a holiday and
days_ till_ holidays indicate how many
days are left before the closest holiday.
Sometimes we have several
datetime columns in our data.
The most for data here is to
subtract one feature from another.
Or perhaps subtract generated features,
like once we have, we just have discussed.
Time moment inside the period or
time passed in zero dependent events.
One simple example of third generation
can be found in churn prediction task.
Basically churn prediction
is about estimating
the likelihood that customers will churn.
We may receive a valuable feature here
by subtracting user registration date
from the date of some action of his,
like purchasing a product, or
calling to the customer service.
We can see how this works
on this data dataframe.
For every user, we know
last_purchase_date and last_call_date.
Here we add the difference between
them as new feature named date_diff.
For clarity,
let's take a look at this figure.
For every user, we have his
last_purchase_date and his last_call_date.
Thus, we can add date_diff
feature which indicates
number of days between these events.
Note that after generation feature is
from date time, you usually will get
either numeric features like
time passed since the year 2000,
or categorical features like day of week.
And these features now are need
to be treated accordingly
with necessary pre-processings
we have discussed earlier.
Now having discussed feature
generation for datetime,
let's move onto feature generation for
coordinates.
Let's imagine that we're trying to
estimate the real estate price.
Like in the Deloitte competition named
Western Australia Rental Prices,
or in the Sberbank Russian Housing Market
competition.
Generally, you can calculate distances
to important points on the map.
Keep this wonderful map.
If you have additional data with
infrastructural buildings, you can
add as a feature distance to the nearest
shop to the second by distance hospital,
to the best school in the neighborhood and
so on.
If you do not have such data,
you can extract interesting points on
the map from your trained test data.
For example, you can do a new
map to squares, with a grid, and
within each square,
find the most expensive flat, and
for every other object in this square,
add the distance to that flat.
Or you can organize your data
points into clusters, and
then use centers of clusters
as such important points.
Or again, another way.
You can find some special areas,
like the area with very old buildings and
add distance to this one.
Another major approach to use coordinates
is to calculate aggregated statistics for
objects surrounding area.
This can include number of lets
around this particular point,
which can then be interpreted as areas or
polarity.
Or we can add mean realty price,
which will indicate how expensive
area around selected point is.
Both distances and
aggregate statistics are often
useful in tasks with coordinates.
One more trick you need to know about
coordinates, that if you train decision
trees from them, you can add slightly
rotated coordinates is new features.
And this will help a model make
more precise selections on the map.
It can be hard to know what exact
rotation we should make, so
we may want to add all rotations to 45 or
22.5 degrees.
Let's look at the next example
of a relative price prediction.
Here the street is dividing
an area in two parts.
The high priced district above the street,
and the low priced district below it.
If the street is slightly rotated, trees
will try to make a lot of space here.
But if we will add new coordinates in
which these two districts can be divided
by a single split, this will hugely
facilitate the rebuilding process.
Great, we just summarize the most
frequent methods used for
future generation from datetime and
coordinates.
For datetime, these are applying
periodicity, calculates in time passed
since particular event, and engine
differences between two datetime features.
For coordinates, we should recall
extracting interesting samples from
trained test data, using places from
additional data, calculating distances to
centers of clusters, and adding aggregated
statistics for surrounding area.
Knowing how to effectively handle datetime
and coordinates, as well as numeric and
categorical features, will provide you
reliable way to improve your score.
And to help you devise that
specific part of solution which is
often required to beat very top scores.
[SOUND]